Programming language.
How to code in Java.
How to use different features and functionality of Java.
And also we will be covering the testing framework supported by Java.
That is Jami Best Energy and GitHub.
How you can commit your code, no pool, your build the repo and these kind of basic things.
So let's get started with the introduction of Java first.
What is Java?
Java is a class based, object oriented programming language and is designed to have as few implementation
dependencies as possible.
Because Java goes by, write ones and run it anywhere.
So we will see about that.
It's a class base.
All of the Java code is written inside the class and it supports all the object oriented features.
A general purpose programming language made for developers to write ones and run anywhere.
That is a compile.
Our code can run on all platforms that supports Java.
Java applications are compiled to bytecode that can run on any job of machines.
So this is what Java is.
Now let us get familiar with some of the Java technologies.
First one is Java Virtual Machine JVM.
Right.
Writing a program is done by a Java programmers like you and me.
The compilation is done by Java compiler.
This is a primary Java compiler included in Java Development Kit that is JDK.
It takes Java program as an input and generates the bytecode as output.
In a running phase of the program, JVM executes bytecode generated by the compiler and the code can
be executed any of it.
Then it has a JVM on JVM.
Right.
So this makes Java platform independent language.
Next is bytecode.
So as we already discussed, the compiler converts the java put in to by good.
It's part of our development process.
Well, Judy did while we were using the term JDK when we learned about bytecode in JVM.
Right.
So JDK has a compiler which compiles the program.
Okay.
So it is a as and as the name suggests.
Right.
It is a Java development kit that includes everything that is a compiler, Jari, Java runtime, environment,
Java Debugger, Java Dogs, etc..
Now let us see what is GRC?
That is Java runtime environment.
JDK includes the JRD Jedi installation and our computer allows the Java programs to run.
However, we cannot compile it.
Jerry includes a browser, JVM, applet, supports and plugins.
Next.
So you must have heard this.
That garbage collector in Java programmers can delete the object to delete or reconnect that memory
which we assign to the object.
Oh, there is a program inside JVM that is called as a garbage collector.
Garbage collectors can recollect the object that someone had referenced.
So Java makes the file life of a programmer all very, very easy when handling the memory management.
So a programmer doesn't have to worry about whatever memory is allocated during the program, during
the code for objects, for variables that will be automatically freed when the program execution is
completed by the garbage collector.
So this really makes the life of any Java developer very easy, right?
Well, the last one is the last part.
The last part is the file, but they're the Java runtime and Java compiler.
Look for the dot class files by below.
By default, JDK provides many libraries, and if you want to include external libraries, then you
can add it to the class book.
So this class path concept you will learn.
Then you want to use any other tools or frameworks which which are supported by Java.
Like in your project you want to add selenium Johnson dependencies.
Then you can give the part in the class bud section.
And this is also very important to understand whatever coder, whatever dependencies you want to add
in your code, right?
All those are you can add to the class but.
Now we will go on and check the major functions features of Java Language.
What are the major main features of the language?
Like Mitchell is platform independent that the code, the source code is converted to the bytecode by
the compiler and then it can be executed on the JVM anywhere.
Right.
So that is the main advantage of it.
The second most important advantage of this language is it is the object oriented.
Organizing the program in terms of collections of object is a V of object oriented programming, each
of which represent an instance of the class.
So the main concepts of object oriented programming are abstraction and get relation, inheritance and
polymorphism.
Simple?
Yes.
Java is one of the simple language as it does not have more complex features like pointers operated,
overloading, multiple inheritance and memory allocation.
Explicit memory allocation.
So this makes the this language simple little burst.
Yes, Java is it obvious and it means it is a reliable language.
It is developed in such a way that it puts a lot of effort into checking errors as early as possible.
And that is why Java compiler is able to detect even those areas that are not easy to detect.
But another programming language as it is a secure.
We don't have pointers so we cannot access all the boundaries that it shows.
I know that one expect exceptions and that's why I say with all security flaws like stack corruption
or before overflow, it's not as impossible to happen in Java.
It is distributed.
We can create distributed applications using Java programming languages.
So many open source tools you can see too they are developed in Java.
So yeah, this makes the language distributed.
It supports Multithreading.
So this is also a very important feature here.
It is a beautiful language.
It's a platform, independent language that it says makes it portable, high performance.
The Java architecture is defined in such a way that it reduces overhead during runtime.
At some time Java used to just in time compiler that is J.
The compiler very compiler compiles called On-Demand basis and which improves the performance dynamic
flexibility.
Java being completely object oriented gives us the flexibility to add classes, new methods to existing
classes, and even creating new classes through subclasses.
Java even supports functions that are done in other languages like C++, with reference to the Native
Matter Sandbox execution.
Java programs run in a separate space that allows users to execute their applications without affecting
the underlying system.
So and right once.
But I know that we have already covered board of compilation and interpretation.
Yes.
Most languages are designed with the Pope as either they are combined language or they're in the printed
language.
But Java integrates arising in almost all what is a Java compiler comprises a school and JVM executes.
So this is a very important features of that.
It makes a platform independent, right?
Once any of it that arguments run anywhere and goes.
It also improves the performance and then we use just in time compiler.
So all these are little features of Java, really a Java programming language.
So this is about the introduction to Java.
Let's get to the next one.